components in blocks (#118)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/docs/basics/blocks-component-in-block.md

- Each component must be standalone and ideally not depend on any other components (sometimes this is not possible but keep this to a minimum).
- Components must not be aware of the layout they are used in.
- No global styles. Instead, all styles should be contained to the block/component. For more details, check [this link](blocks-styles).
- You should define all heading variations in a `heading` component. You can then use this component everywhere you have a heading instead of writing a new implementation. In practice: don't do `<h2>$heading</h2>` but render the `heading` component instead using the helpers defined in the [helpers section](helpers). The heading is just an example, but this applies to every component.
- You can have multiple heading components in one block.

> - **JavaScript and PHP part of the block/component must be 99% te same this is why we wrote all those helpers.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **JavaScript and PHP part of the block/component must be 99% the same this is why we wrote all those helpers.**
```

## Manifest setup

> In order to use our way or passing props you must understand a few things, you must use our helpers and you must set `components` key in the manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use our way of passing props, there are a few prerequisites you must follow. You must use our helpers and you must set `components` key in the manifest.
```

> As we described in the [block manifest](block-manifest) chapter each block/component can have `components` key. This key is used in the registration of the block attributes in the block editor and as a dependency tree for passing props in the childeren components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we described in the [block manifest](block-manifest) chapter each block/component can have a `components` key. This key is used in the registration of the block attributes in the block editor and as a dependency tree for passing props in the children components.
```

**Default setup:**
```json
"components": {
	"heading": "heading"
}
```

Components key is an object that can have multiple items added. 

> > Key represents the name that is going to be used for this component in this block/component and the prefix used in tha attributes (more on this later).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Key represents the name that is going to be used for this component in this block/component and the prefix used in the attributes (more on this later).
```

> Value represents the real component name that you have in your project. 

> Each key and value names can be written in the kebab-case or camelCase but we recommend using camelCase.

**Multiple components setup:**
```json
"components": {
	"heading": "heading",
	"paragraph": "paragraph"
}
```

This block/component uses two components, one is heading and the other is paragraphy and they are using the default names.

> **Multiple components setup with the same type:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Multiple components set up with the components of the same type:**
```

```json
"components": {
	"heading": "heading",
	"intro": "heading",
	"paragraph": "paragraph"
}
```

> This block/component uses three components, one is heading and the other heading is renamed to intro and the last one is paragraphy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block/component uses three components, one is heading and the other heading is renamed to intro and the last one is paragraph.
```

## Important helpers

> As we described earlier in order to use our setup you must use our helpers. Here are some of the helper you should get familiar with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we described earlier, in order to use our setup you must use our helpers. Here are some of the helpers you should get familiar with:
```

* getOptions - [JS](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/develop/scripts/editor/get-options.js) - [PHP](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/develop/src/Helpers/Components.php)
* getOption - [JS](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/develop/scripts/editor/get-options.js) - [PHP](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/develop/src/Helpers/Components.php)
* getAttrKey - [JS](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/develop/scripts/helpers/check-attr.js) - [PHP](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/develop/src/Helpers/Components.php)
* checkAttr - [JS](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/develop/scripts/helpers/check-attr.js) - [PHP](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/develop/src/Helpers/Components.php)
* render - [PHP](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/blob/develop/src/Blocks/AbstractBlocks.php)

For more details please check our helpers sections for [JavaScript](helpers-javascript) and [PHP](helpers-php).

> > Keep in mind that you can always ignore our setup and use the React native way of passing props to components by prop drilling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Keep in mind that you can always ignore our setup and use the React way of passing props to components by prop drilling.
```

React native way read like use `React native` and not `React` 😄

## Setting up attributes

> > Each attribute must have the component name prefix in each attribute. This is one of the biggest requirement for our setup to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Each attribute must have the component name prefix in each attribute. This is one of the biggest requirements in order for our setup to work.
```

> By defining components key in the block registration phase we are drilling down from block to the last component and setting up attribute names according to you setup. In order for everything to work we had to add/change prefixes to each component attribute in corelation where this attribute is used in the dependency tree. It is not so hard as it souns so let us show you some graphical examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By defining components key in the block registration phase we are drilling down from block to the last component and setting up attribute names according to your setup. In order for everything to work, we had to add/change prefixes to each component attribute in relation to where this attribute is used in the dependency tree. It is not so hard as it sounds so let us show you some graphical examples:
```

`src/Blocks/custom/jumbotron/manifest.json`

```json

> "blockName": "jumbotron",

Reviewer: On line 112 there is a typo `component's` -> `component`

Author: fixed

```json

// Attributes from the component.
"jumbotronHeadingContent": "",
"jumbotronHeadingLevel": 2,
"jumbotronHeadingSize": "default",

// Attributes from the block.
"jumbotronContent": "test",
```

> As you can see in the example, each block/component attribute must have prefix and we ara than stacking that prefixed in the final output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see in the example, each block/component attribute must have a prefix, and we are then stacking that prefixed in the final output.
```

### I want to override one heading attribute in my block.

> We build all our attributes by merging attributes objects in this order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We build all our attributes by merging attribute's objects in this order:
```

We are using the same component as before:

`src/Blocks/components/heading/manifest.json`

```json
"componentName": "heading",
"attributes": {
	"headingContent": {
		"type": "string"
	},
	"headingLevel": {
		"type": "int",
		"default": 2
	},
	"headingSize": {
		"type": "string",
		"default": "default"
	},
}
```

and in Jumbotron block we want to change the default value of headingSize to big:

`src/Blocks/custom/jumbotron/manifest.json`

```json
"blockName": "jumbotron",
"attributes": {
	"jumbotronContent": {
		"type": "string"
		"default": "test",
	},
	"jumbotronHeadingSize": {
		"type": "string",
		"default": "big"
	},
},
"components": {
	"heading": "heading"
}
```

In your block attributes object, you will now have these keys:

```json

// Attributes from the component.
"jumbotronHeadingContent": "",
"jumbotronHeadingLevel": 2,
"jumbotronHeadingSize": "big",

// Attributes from the block.
"jumbotronContent": "test",
```

As you can see in the example, to overide tha component attribute you just set that attribute to a different value but you must respect the attribute prefix.

> ### I want to use one heading and paragraph component in my block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### I want to use one heading and a paragraph component in my block.
```

and you have a card component:

`src/Blocks/components/card/manifest.json`

```json
"componentName": "card",
"attributes": {

> 	"cardUsage": {

Author: this is just an example so no mater what it is as long as the reader understands it

> ```json

Reviewer: ```
in your block attribute's object, you will now have these keys:
```

This attribute is available in all three components (editor, toolbar, options). If set to **false**, it will remove this component from the DOM. This is useful if you want to hide all markup from the DOM.

> For example, you have a Jumbotron block and a heading that you want to populate if necessary. If you add content to the heading, everything looks good. But if you don't add it, you'll still see a placeholder for that heading in the block editor. That affects how you perceive it, and a editor may think this block will look like that on the front end (with the placeholder text). So if you have a component that you will not populate on some block, switch the toggle to false, and you will hide it from the DOM. This is useful for content editors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you have a Jumbotron block and a heading that you want to populate if necessary. If you add content to the heading, everything looks good. But if you don't add it, you'll still see a placeholder for that heading in the block editor. This affects how you perceive it, and an editor may think this block will look like that on the front end (with the placeholder text). So if you have a component that you will not populate on some block, switch the toggle to false, and you will hide it from the DOM. This is useful for content editors.
```

### I have a component name that has multiple strings in a name, will this work?

By multiple strings in a name we mean that component name has multiple words, for example, `jumbotron-cta`. The problem here is that we define components with kebab-case and attributes with camelcase.

The short answer is **yes** this will work.

### I have a component that I want to use manually

We created this cool way of importing attributes and loading components in your blocks or other components. However, that doesn't mean that you can't have instances where you have to load components manually. In that case, you have to provide all the attributes that you want to use manually. The attributes that you didn't provide will not be magically set from the manifest, but you can make your life easier and map it like this.

For example, you have a `card` component that you will use in the `featured-posts` block.

`src/Blocks/custom/featured-posts/featured-posts.php`

```php
// Fetch and parse manifest using custom helper.

> $cardManifest = Components::getManifest(dirname(__DIR__, 2) . '/components/card');

Reviewer: Where is this used in the example below?

> $cardManifest = Components::getManifest(dirname(__DIR__, 2) . '/components/card');

Reviewer: Where is this going to be used in the example below?

Author: not used. I have removed it

echo wp_kses_post(
	Components::render(
		'card',
		Components::props('card', $attributes, [
			'cardHeadingContent' => __('Custom content for heading', 'textdomain'),
			'cardParagraphContent' => __('Custom content for paragraph', 'textdomain'),
		]),
		'',
		true
	)
);
```

### I want to limit which options are shown for components inside a block/component

Let's say you have a block that has a `heading` component inside it.

The `heading` has 10 text sizes and 5 colors, but for that block, only 2 colors and 3 text sizes are allowed.
To achieve this you must prepare your component to be able to use this feature:

1. Your component options must be named the same name as their attribute value. In the example, you can see that the options key for `typographySize` is the same name as in the attributes.

> `src/Blocks/components/heading/heading.php`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/Blocks/components/heading/manifest.json`
```

At one point in time, we agreed on naming standards for all component attributes. That way we made sure that you wouldn't get any collisions when using multiple components. So we said it is ok to spread all attributes to the component and let the component handle what it needs. Well, that approach is ok but it can bite you in the a.. at the point that you least expect.

> That is why we created [props helper](helpers-javascript) that determins what attributes are passed to what component depending on the dependency tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is why we created [props helper](helpers-javascript) that determines what attributes are passed to what component depending on the dependency tree.
```

```json
{
	"blockName": "heading",
	"components": {
		"heading": "heading"
	},
}
```

In the `components` key, you must provide components that you are going to be using in this block. There are more options in the example at the beginning of this chapter.

`src/Blocks/custom/heading/components/heading-editor.js`

```js
import React from 'react';
import { props } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts';
import { HeadingEditor as HeadingEditorComponent } from '../../../components/heading/components/heading-editor';

export const HeadingEditor = ({ attributes, setAttributes }) => {
	return (
		<HeadingEditorComponent
			{...props('heading', attributes, {
				setAttributes: setAttributes,
			})}
		/>
	);
};
```

In JavaScript, you spread the results of the props helper.

`src/Blocks/custom/heading/heading.php`

```php
<?php

/**
 * Template for the Heading Block view.
 *
 * @package EightshiftBoilerplate
 */

use EightshiftBoilerplateVendor\EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Components;

?>

<div>
	<?php
	echo Components::render( // phpcs:ignore WordPress.Security.EscapeOutput.OutputNotEscaped
		'heading',
		Components::props('heading', $attributes)
	);
	?>
</div>
```

> Now, let's see how the `component heading` looks like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's see how the component `heading` looks like.
```

For more details please read the [props helper docs](helpers-javascript).

> You should avoid spreading attributes as props but rather use this helper because it provides only what is used in the component.

### Passing setAttributes to components

As we described earlier props helper knows what to pass to a child component but there are some wild cards here. When you are passing props from block to component you must pass setAttributes down as props but if if you are passing props from component to component you don't need to. This is because we added some automatic includes in our props helper that you can check [here](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/develop/scripts/editor/props.js).

### Manualy overiding attributes from the code

You can also do this and this is why we created the third parameter in the props helper in order to be able to pass attributes via code and still be able to use automatic attributes prefixes that the props helper provides:

```js
<TypographyEditor
	{...props('typography', attributes, {
		typographyContent: item,
	})}
	disableEdit={true}
/>
```

> typographyContent attribute will follow the naming prefix when passed to a child but the disableEdit will remain the same name in all the childrens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typographyContent attribute will follow the naming prefix when passed to a child but the disableEdit will remain the same name in all the children.
```

> Here as a third parameter you can also pass all include attributes but they will not get prefixed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, as a third parameter, you can also pass all include attributes but they will not get prefixed:
```
